We are a team of five software
engineering students who
developed the web application to
assist radiologists and medical
professionals and reviewing
chest X rays.
According to background
research, jesek fish are the
most common medical imaging
modality today and they
constitute 40% of the 3.6
billion medical imaging
procedures performed while
worldwide every year just X rays
are taken for a variety of
reasons, including but not
limited to, the following
describing a wide range of
cardiac and lung conditions.
Verify the position of lines,
tubes and ask you patients or
during after interventions
rolling out diseases for
regulatory reasons such as
immigration and occupational
health assessments.
This large volume of data
becomes very tedious for
radiologists and other medical
professionals to review and
analyze manually.
The need to carefully examine
each just agree to perform
diagnosis or check for
normality.
This arduous process can cause
delays for patients who are
waiting for the test results.
This is especially problematic
for patients in time sensitive
situations, such as those with
critical conditions whose
symptoms could worsen over time.
To address this issue, we
combined a back end database
Tamil model and a front end GUI
to make an AI powered web
application to perform just
X-ray scan and make disease
predictions.
This web application is called
the X-ray assist for just X-ray
diagnosis.
How does it work?
The web application that front
end is accessible from your web
browser and to use it you'll
need to log in or create an
account if you don't already
have one.
And then you are presented with
your most recent patients.
You select the patient you want
to perform a chest X ray scan on
and then press the X ray button
to start the X-ray Von to start.
The web application pulls the
patient data from the back end
database which includes the
patients chest X-ray images
saved as a DICOM file.
It will then send the image to
the ML model which will convert
the image to a JPEG and perform
the X-ray scan.
After the scan is complete, the
chest X-ray, heat maps and
disease prediction results are
returned and displayed.
You know what application?
Why use X-ray assist?
Currently, existing ML models
that read chest X rays require
additional setup before they can
be used for image processing.
Also, since raw chest X-ray
image data are in the DICOM file
format and need to be converted
into JPEG images format before
they can be inputted to the ML
models, our web app uses an ML
model that combines multiple ML
models together to accurately
make predictions for a specific
set of diseases on scanned chest
X rays, where each ML model is
trained and optimized for
certain sets of diseases.
It also converts the DICOM and
handles all the interfacing with
the ML model.
It's intuitive GUI allows any
medical professional to simply
log in, select a patient and
press a few buttons, and then
the application handles the rest
of the work to perform the chest
X-ray scan and return the heat
knots and disease predictions.
The front end web application
was developed in JavaScript
TypeScript using the node JS
runtime environment and React
Library.
JavaScript and TypeScript was
chosen for his flexibility and
functionality for Front
development and interfacing with
the back end.
The back end was done using the
firebase Real Time database,
restoring user and patient data
and firebase authentication for
user authentication and account
management.
Firebase was chosen for its
security features, namely secure
data access, transfer and
storage and user authentication
and account management.
The ML model was developed in
Python to take advantage of all
the existing Python libraries
available for ML models.
Is specially for scanning chest,
xrays.
The app works by interfacing
with the medical institutions.
The medical professionals are
associated with to grab their
patients data and chest X ray
images.
This is intended to make it as
easy as possible for them to
perform chest X ray scans.
Currently the results are
displayed to the web application
in a simple point form format.
In the future, the goal is to
have an LP model that can take
the results and generate a
natural language radiology
report of the chest X-ray, heat
maps and disease predictions.
That's all.
Thanks for watching.